Field: A set of objects in which rules of addition and multiplication apply i.e.if  the resultant is present in the set then the set is called a field.
Subfield: A subset F of C which itself is a field under the addition and multiplication operations.

Characterstic: If F is a field and if adding 1's finite number of times result into 0, then the least n such that sum of n 1's is zero is called characterstic of the field. If there doesn't exist any n then the field is called as the field of characterstic zero.

Homogeneous linear equations: Linear equations of the form AX = Y for which X=0 is the only solution then such system of equations is called homogeneous.

Equivalent systems of linear equations: Two systems of linear equations such that each equation in each system can be represented as linear combination of equations in other system then the 2 systems are called equivalent.
Also, equivalent systems of linear equations have exactly the same solutions.

//For all excercises, just the idea is given and not the actual proof
Excercise 1:
Q1. SInce we know that a field of rational number is a subfield of C and x,y are rational numbers in the set of complex numbers of the form x+y*sqrt(2)  then all the operations under addition and multiplication are elements of the subfield.
Q6. If 2 systems of linear equations have exact same solutions, then they can be written as linear combinations of each other and by the definition and theorem 1, they are equivalent.
Q7. Same reasoning as Q1.
Q8. Rational number can be denoted as p/q for q!=0. Thus, adding the integer 1 finite number of times to a fraction will not result into 0. Thus, each field of characterstic zero contains a copy of rational number field. //Same reasoning can be applied for a field of complex numbers as well

Elementary row operations on a matrix:
1. multiplication of one row of matrix A by a scalar 'c' where c!=0
2. r = r+c*s where c is scalar, r,s are some rows of A and r!=s
3. interchange two rows in A.

Row equivalent matrices:
For A, B be 2 mxn matrices over the field F, B is row-equivalent to A if B can be obtained by a finite number of elementary row operations on A.

Row-reduced matrix:
A mxn matrix R is row-reduced if:
1. the first non-zero entry in each non-zero row of R is equal to 1
2. each column of R which contains the leading non-zero entry of some row has all it's other entries zero.

Excercise 2:
Q7: Same logic as exchanging values in 2 variables without using a third vaariable.
Q8.a: Solving the system of equations AX=0, we get (ad-bc)(x1) = 0. If every entry of A is zero, then (ad-bc) = 0. This means any value of x1 and x2 will satisfy the system of equations.
Q8.b: From (a), we see that if (ad-bc) != 0, then x1 and x2 has to be zero.
Q8.c: From (a), we see that if (ad-bc) = 0, then if (x1,x2) is a solution then, (y*x1,y*x2) is also a solution.

Row-reduced echlon matrices:
An mxn matrix R is row-reduced echlon if:
1. R is row reduced.
2. every row of R with all its entries = 0 occurs below every row which has a non-zero entry
3. IF rows 1,2,...,r are the non-zero rows of R, and if leading non-zero entry of row i occurs in column ki where i=1,2,....,r then k1<k2<..<kr

Augmented matrix, matrix multiplication are known definitions.

Elementary matrix: An mxn matrix is said to be elementary matrix if it can be obtained from mxm identity matrix by means of a single elementary row  operation.

//Note: Identity matrix are always square matrix so in the above definition, m>n

For A,B be mxn matrices, B is row-equivalent to A if and only if B=PA, where P is a product of mxm elementary matrices.

Left inverse of a matrix: For an nxn matrix A, if B is nxn matrix such that BA=I then B is called left inverse of A.
Right inverse of a matrix: For an nxn matrix A, if B is nxn matrix such that AB=I then B is called right inverse of A.
Invertible matrix: For an nxn matrix A, if nxn matrix B such that AB=BA=I, then B is called two-sided inverse of A and matrix A is said to be invertible.

Important observations: A is invertible = A is row-equivalent to nxn I = A is product of elementary matrices = (AX=0) has only a trivial solution = (AX=Y) has a solution X for each nx1 matrix Y.

Excercise 6:
Q6. We get a 2x2  row-reduced echlon matrix. It is not invertible.
Q8: If (ad-bc) = 0, we get row-reduced echlon matrix.
Q9: If any entry in the diagonal is zero, we can obtain a row-reduced echlon matrix by performing elementary row operations.
Q10: The last 2 rows will be same(while reducing to I) for any mxn and nxm matrix when multiplied together resulting into row-reduced echlon matrix.
Q11:
Q12:



